- [Instructor] To work with the Twitter API,
we'll need two things,
a Twitter account and a registered API client.
I'm going to assume that you have a Twitter account
and we're going to focus on registering our client
with the API.
To do that, we can click on the Apply button
from the Twitter developer platform
and then we can click to upgrade to a developer account.
In the application process for the developer account,
you're going to be asked several questions
about how you'll use the API.
I'm going to say that I'm a hobbyist
and that I'm exploring the API
and then I'll click on, Get started.
It'll be important that your Twitter account
has a registered email and phone number,
you cannot continue without it
so make sure you take care of that.
And then lowering the page,
we'll have to fill out this form.
So what would you like us to call you?
Let's just say the Hotel Landon Manager.
I'll specify that I'm living in the US,
my coding skill level
and then I'm going to opt out of Updates.
Then they're going to ask about usage.
So here the want to have a description
of why we are using the API.
I'm just going to say on building a prototype application
and doing some sentiment analysis.
Then they're going to get a little bit more detailed.
They want to know if we're going to analyze Twitter data.
We are, and I'll use that same justification
and leave the checkbox as, Yes.
We're not going to be performing any tweets,
retweets, likes.
So I'm going to check this is No
and then at the same time
we're not going to aggregate this data.
So I'll check this as No,
I'm also not representing a government entity,
I'll check that as No.
So just go ahead, hit Next
review your information, hit Next again.
Then you'll have to agree to the policy for developers
and finally, you can Submit your application.
At this point
they're going to send you a verification email,
so you'll want to go check your email for that
and confirm that it is a valid email address.
After you've done that, you can just click here
and go back into the Developer Portal.
And here's where we can begin to create our project
and register our client.
So I'll go ahead, I'll click on, Create a Project
and they want a name for our project.
I'm just going to say, it's the Landon Hotel project.
They'll want to know how we're using this.
So I'm going to say this is for teaching
and then click Next.
I'll then paste in our product description
which is the blurb that I've been entering
throughout the process.
And then finally, we need to provide an app name.
I'm going to call this the landon-hotel-monitor
and hit Complete.
So at the end of all that we get the keys.
So, these keys are part of the OAuth2 security scheme.
Specifically the client credentials grant.
Under normal circumstances the OAuth flow
would require us to provide the API key
and the API secret key to an endpoint
where we would exchange those credentials
for the bearer token.
Now the Twitter developer platform has done that for us
and all we need to do, is copy our bear token to continue.
So keep that handy because we're going to make a call
to the recent search endpoint
using Postman to test out our new Twitter client.
So here inside of the search tweets
section of the documentation, click on the API Reference
and then click on this endpoint.
This takes us to the documentation for the recent search
and we can find everything we need to make a call.
To make it a little bit easier,
I'm going to put it side by side with Postman,
but we're first going to satisfy the security requirements
of the Twitter API.
To do that, just click on the authorization tab
within Postman and then in this dropdown select OAuth 2.0
because that's the security scheme used by the Twitter API.
Now you should still have the bearer token in your clipboard
from our work in the Twitter developer platform console.
So just right click inside of the access token text box
and paste your bearer token.
Now let's talk a little bit about what this does.
This will cause our bearer token
to be sent in the HTTP request
in a header named Authorization.
And the value for that header will be bare space
and then the token that we've provided.
And this is how you pass tokens when you're using OAuth 2.0.
So we satisfied the security scheme for the Twitter API,
let's keep building the request.
To do that, I'm going to return to the documentation
and I'm going to copy the end point for recent search
and then I'll just paste it here in this text box.
Now, if we scroll down in the docs,
you'll find the one required parameter named Query.
So let's go ahead and within Postman,
we can add that query parameter
by clicking on the Params tab
and then typing the name of the parameter here.
Now this parameter is going to contain key words
that will determine the tweets
that are returned in the response from the Twitter API.
So I'm interested in LinkedIn technology articles.
You can put whatever terms you're interested in
in that value textbox.
Now, when I click on the Send button,
it's going to fire off the call
and we're going to get some tweets back.
So here we see a tweet that came back in the array
and I want to point out something about that tweet.
You'll notice it only has the two base properties,
ID and Text.
We can use another parameter
the tweet.fields parameter.
This is one of those parameters that has the field suffix
so we can use it to shape the response that we get back.
So I'm going to say that I would like the author ID
to be included, by typing in author_id.
Now watch what happens when I send off this call.
Now the JSON for the tweet in the response
contains the author ID.
So, we were able to shape the data that gets sent back
by the Twitter API in the response body.
That's pretty cool.
It's a few steps to register a client with the Twitter API,
however, once you're past those hurdles
you can access a wealth of data
that are applicable for a variety of used cases.
We'll see a few of those in action in the upcoming lessons.